---
description: 'https://docs.rstudio.com/shiny-server/#upstart-ubuntu-14.04-redhat-6'
---

# 1.4.2 Upstart \(Ubuntu 14.04, RedHat 6\)



Upstart is a system used to automatically start, stop and manage services. The installer will automatically deploy an Upstart script to `/etc/init/shiny-server.conf`. This script will initialize `shiny-server` as soon as the network is activated on the machine, and stop when the machine is being shut down.

The Upstart script will also ensure that `shiny-server` is respawned if the process is terminated unexpectedly. However, in the event that there is an issue that consistently prevents Shiny Server from being able to start \(such as a bad configuration file\), Upstart will give up on restarting the service after approximately 5 failed attempts within a few seconds. For this reason, you may see multiple repetitions of a bad Shiny Server startup attempt before it transitions to the `stopped` state.

To start or stop the server, run the following commands, respectively.

```text
$ sudo start shiny-server
```

```text
$ sudo stop shiny-server
```

To restart the server you can run:

```text
$ sudo stop shiny-server
$ sudo start shiny-server
```

Note that we recommend `stop` and `start` rather than just `restart`, as `restart` caches some data that may cause the server not to detect some recently made changes.

This command will shutdown all running Shiny processes, disconnect all open connections, and re-initialize the server. Note that `restart` _will not_ reread the Upstart definition at `/etc/init/shiny-server.conf`. So if you have changed, for instance, any environment variables in that file, you will need to `stop` and `start` to have those changes take effect.

If you wish to reload the configuration but keep the server and all Shiny processes running without interruption, you can use the `reload` command as in:

```text
$ sudo reload shiny-server
```

This will cause the server to re-initialize, but will not interrupt the current processes or any of the open connections to the server.

**Known Issue:** Due to a bug in the version of Upstart that comes with Ubuntu 13.04, `reload` will not behave as expected on that platform and should not be used.

To check the status or retrieve the Process ID associated with `shiny-server`, run the following:

```text
$ status shiny-server
```

