---
description: >-
  https://docs.rstudio.com/shiny-server/#running-shiny-server-with-root-privileges
---

# 2.3.2 Running Shiny Server with Root Privileges

특정 사용자에 대해 R Shiny process를 실행 하는 것과 별개로, shiny-server process는 각각의 다른 사용자 들에게 주어지는 권한을 조절 할 수 있습니다. shiny server가 root로 실행 되어야 하는 시나리오는 다음과 같습니다:

user\_apps 혹은 user\_dirs가 모든 location에서 허용 된 경우. 다양한 사용자에게 application을 호스팅 하기 위해, shiny server는 반드시 root 권한을 필요로 합니다. 

1. 만약 run\_as 를 사용하여 다른 사용자로 application을 실행하는 경우.
2. 만약 특정 port에 \(1-1024\) 다른 server를 구동중인 경우.



By default, the `shiny-server` process will be started as the `root` user, then will spawn R processes according to the corresponding `run_as` setting. You can, however, run the `shiny-server` process as a non-privileged user such as the `shiny` user if none of the limitations above are violated.

Shiny Server Professional leverages PAM to spawn sessions for users. See the section on [PAM Sessions](https://docs.rstudio.com/shiny-server/#pam-sessions) to find more details about how you can use PAM to tailor constraints on the Shiny processes that Shiny Server spawns.

For Shiny Server Pro, if it detects that it is running as root but has no need to do so \(i.e., none of the criteria above were met\), then it will drop its privileges and run as an unprivileged user. Note that, for security reasons, that change is irreversible. This means that once Shiny Server drops its privileges, it will not be able to regain them should a new configuration be loaded that requires such privileges.

By default, if `shiny-server` detects that it does not need to run with `root` privileges, it will attempt to run as an unprivileged user to be more secure. It will determine which user to run as by inspecting the `run_as` directives in your configuration file -- if there is only one user defined in a `run_as` statement, and the aforementioned constraints are satisfied, the entire Shiny Server process will just run as that user. The default configuration sets `run_as` to `shiny`, so the process will run as the `shiny` user. Note that, while the process will run as the defined user, it may not behave in exactly the same way as interactively logging in as that user. In particular, the supplemental groups will not be set for the user.

Be aware that upon installing Shiny Server, permissions on the file system are set to enable the `shiny` user to read and write from various directories as is necessary to allow Shiny Server to run as the `shiny` user. Running Shiny Server as another user will require that you adjust the permissions to grant this other user the necessary privileges to run Shiny Server. In particular, ensure that the user has write privileges on these paths \(recursively\):

* `/var/lib/shiny-server/` \(or whatever custom `SHINY_DATA_DIR` setting you are using\)
* `/var/log/shiny-server/` \(and/or whatever other directories you use for logging\)

and read privileges on these paths \(recursively\):

* `/srv/shiny-server/` \(and/or whatever other directories you are using to host Shiny applications\)
* `/opt/shiny-server/`
* `/etc/shiny-server/` \(Note that you should enable **only** read access on this directory, as you likely don't want to allow your Shiny applications \(which also run as `shiny`\) to be able to write to your configuration or password file.\)

Finally, if the directory `/tmp/shiny-server/` exists, it \(and all files within it\) should be owned by the user you specify.

