---
description: 'https://docs.rstudio.com/shiny-server/#custom-templates'
---

# 2.10 Custom Templates

Shiny Server can utilize custom templates when generating static pages such as directory indexes and error pages. This feature is controlled using the `template_dir` directive and can be applied globally, or to a particular `server` or `location`.

To utilize this feature, you will need a dedicated directory to store your templates; in this example, we assume you are using `/etc/shiny-server/templates/`. Inside this directory, you will place the [handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/)-enabled HTML templates for your pages.

When a static page is requested, Shiny Server will attempt to respond with the appropriate template. For instance, if it encountered a 404 error, it will first look to see if you provided a specific template for handling 404 errors in the specified directory \(`error-404.html`\). If it does not find this file, it will look for a generic error template \(`error.html`\). If it cannot find a suitable template in your template directory, it will fall back on the default templates that are provided with Shiny Server \(which are stored in `/opt/shiny-server/templates`\).

When naming your templates, you must conform to the specific hyphen-delimited pattern that Shiny Server uses for file names. All error pages start with `error`, but the file name for a 404 error page would add an additional element \(`404`\) following a hyphen: `error-404`. All files are expected to use the `.html` extension.

The tables below describe the page templates that can be defined in Shiny Server:

| Template Name | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| error-403 | Client is forbidden from accessing this page. Or, in Shiny Server Pro, that the user is signed in but does not have permissions to view this application. |
| error-404 | Page not found |
| error-500 | General server error |
| error-503-users | The application has exceeded its maximum \# of users |
| error-503-license | \(Pro Only\) You have exceeded the number of concurrent users allotted for your license. |
| directoryIndex | Shown when `directory_index` is enabled for a location and the user visits the base URL. |
| login | \(Pro Only\) Used to render the login page. |

Again, any of the template names that have hyphens in them can be generalized by trimming off the hyphen and subsequent word\(s\). For instance, a file named `error-503.html` could be used as the template for _both_ `error-503-users` pages, as well as `error-503-license` pages. More generally, a single template can be used for all errors by naming it `error.html`. If a more specific template does not exist, this page would be used when generating a page for any type of error.

We recommend starting with the existing templates and modifying them to create your own branding. To do this, copy the relevant HTML files out of `/opt/shiny-server/templates/` into your template directory \(for example, `/etc/shiny-server/templates/`\). For example, to create a custom error page, execute:

```text
$ mkdir /etc/shiny-server/templates/
$ cp /opt/shiny-server/templates/error.html /etc/shiny-server/templates/
```

Now open the new template in your preferred text editor and modify it. Initially, leave the overall structure intact, but add some language at the top of the page \(immediately under the line containing `<h1>{{title}}</h1>`\), or add some new CSS rules, and save the file.

Now instruct Shiny Server to use this new template in your configuration by adding the line:

```text
template_dir /etc/shiny-server/templates;
```

at the top/bottom of the file so it applies globally. Of course, you can later specify another `template_dir` for particular `location`s if you wish.

When you restart the server and access an error page, you should see your new text or CSS styling on the page that is loaded. \(Try accessing a hidden file like `http://server.com:3838/.hidden`, where `server.com` is the domain name or IP address of your server, which should use the `error-403` or `error` template.\) Likewise, you can copy the `directoryIndex.html` template or, for Shiny Server Pro, the `login.html` template to your custom directory and begin customizing.

For performance reasons, templates are cached in memory once they are loaded. Thus, you will find that changes to your template may not be immediately visible when you refresh the page. To empty the cache and force Shiny Server to load in the new changes to your template, you can either `restart` or `reload` the server \(see the section on [Stopping and Starting](https://docs.rstudio.com/shiny-server/#stopping-and-starting)\).

Finally, note that these templates currently only apply for HTML pages that are generated by Shiny Server. An HTML page generated by the Shiny package will _not_ have custom templates applied at this time. Currently, this is most visible with 404 errors. If you access a URL which Shiny Server cannot direct to a Shiny application \(for instance, `http://server.com:3838/flargdarg`, where `server.com` is the domain name or IP address of your server\), you will see a Shiny-Server-generated 404 error page which has custom templates applied \(assuming this `server` is configured to have a custom `error-404.html` or `error.html` template\). However, if you were to access a file that does not exist in a valid application, you would see an un-styled 404 page that did not leverage your custom template. For instance, if you have an application deployed at `http://server.com:3838/myApp` and you attempt to access `http://server.com:3838/myApp/flargdarg`, the request would be sent to Shiny which would then look for this file and, if it is not found, would return a 404 page. Shiny Server would pass this response back directly to the client, since it was not generated by Shiny Server. We will be reviewing this architecture in future versions -- please let us know if you find that the current organization inhibits your workflow.

